# Disruption in the telecom industry due to Reliance Jio 

In India, the pool of few private players and government agencies have been battling out since many years to attract the right share of market and provide quality service pan India. Private players such as Airtel, Vodafone, Idea Cellular and government agencies such as state owned BSNL have been competing closely to cater to the growing subscriber base, both voice and data. India has seen significant growth in its internet subscriber’s numbers with the figures growing exponentially year by year (Vamsi, 2016). The growth of 3G services and the launch of 4G recently by incumbents has exposed the country to high speed internet and better voice quality. However, still a large share of people are 2G prepaid users (kaushik, 2016) who prefer these high speed services only if provided at cheap cost. Riding on this wave to provide high quality voice call and data service, 'Reliance Jio' - a 4G venture of Mukesh Ambani, the chairman, managing director and largest shareholder of the biggest Indian conglomerate, Reliance Industries Ltd, set the river on fire with its mobile services launched in September 2016. Its USP: lifetime of free calls, charges only for either voice or data services, affordable internet tariffs at high speeds covering both rural and urban market. Overall, Ambani’s speech (Online, 2016) can be broadly categorised as - Push to Digital India movement by increasing the subscriber base and extending its services to rural India, provide high speed data connectivity and provide impetus to the growing data subscriber base.
The objective of this report is to understand how the launch of Reliance Jio as a new market player has reached its users, causing a disruption in the existing market, and the ecosystem which it is trying to build through text data analysis using Topic Modeling and Sentiment Analysis. We discuss the major topics or themes which has emerged as Jio tries to not only provide the basic services, but how it has tried to create a new ecosystem and provide/decline boost to other markets, consolidation with existing competitors or escalation of the war. Lastly we examine how the customers have perceived the services by analysing twitter data, analysing the sentiment regarding its services and the likes and dislikes of the people
Keywords – Reliance Jio, Mukesh Ambani, Indian Telecom Industry, Topic Modeling, 4G war
